Conor: Hello, I'm Conor Krystad, interviewing Byron Krystad.

Byron: Uh, Byron Krystad.

Conor: Okay, cool. So Byron, who was one of you idols growing up?

Byron: Um, one of my idols. I should have these questions to preview, these kind of things always stump me. You know, probably in my family I admired my uncle Arold quite a lot.

Conor: Yeah.

Byron: He was a very kind uncle and very kind and open with his nephews and young children in the family in a way that really drew us out and really connected us to him. He enjoyed spending time with us and that was both very appealing and built confidence in me as a kid. To be around an adult who behaved like that and engaged with kids like that. I don't know if I fully idolized him but admiration.

Conor: Of course. What are some of your hobbies?

Byron: Current hobbies?

Conor: Yeah, current hobbies or previous hobbies.

Byron: Well I've done photography, enjoy music, both listening and playing, I've been trying to learn guitar for sixty years or something like that.

Conor: *laughter*

Byron: And have not been too successful with it. I enjoy fiddling around with hiking, walking, being outdoors, takes up a of my freetime pastime activity. Reading, for pleasure, puttering around with cars. I like cars, machinery, doing maintenance and learning about them.

Conor: Billy-car.

Byron: Yeah, Billy-car that old project. I've got this old trust that I'm doing the maintenance on. Learning a lot about that. And I had that old British sports car a while back.

Conor: Oh, the blue one?

Byron: Yeah, that I worked a lot on. Took care of and worked on.

Conor: Do you consider your hobbies manly?

Byron: Certainly the cars, that primarily my experience with that has been around men. Although I was in a car club for the British car, which had a lot of fans in the Northwest and there were mixtures of men and women who owned those cars, in that group. But the whole mechanical side of it, the maintenance, the understanding of the technology or lack of technology in the older cars.

Conor: Yeah. 

Byron: Was mostly fascinating with the men. Other ones, music, photography, no, those are any gender. 

Conor: Okay. So what does it mean to "be a man" then?

Byron: Um, well that's a good question. For me, I guess, in what I would identify as being associated with "being a man", being responsible, dependable, providing. Supporting mostly through actions and deeds and not as much through emotional presence or even physical presence. So that, I could be away at a job earning money for my family and not be connected to my family but be supporting them in a way that felt like a reasonable way for me to contribute and be part of the family.

Conor: Yeah. What're some masculine characteristics that you have?

Byron: I don't listen well. 

Both: *laughter*

Conor: That's surprising to hear.

Byron: Well, I guess what I mean by that is trusting my own senses and understanding or perception of the world around me, rather than listening to other people and listening to them and weighing as much their views of the world as mine. And driving ahead without that kind of consideration of multiple points of view seems like a pretty masculine trait. That I also like to work against and try to change that, because I recognise and I value it as much as other people might be a problem as much as it can be a strength. 

Conor: Are there any feminine characteristics that you have? If so, what might they be?

Byron: Hm. Well probably as much as I might be oblivious to other people, I do care what other people think and how they feel. Although I might struggle sometimes to understand it or perceive it, but it is important to me and it is a dimension of life and certainly a dimension of relationships that is critical that I don't want to be without. Even though models or examples of masculinity which have been presented don't include that, whether that is a feminine quality or a non-traditionally-masculine quality, I don't know. But the things that kind of go against the grain of masculinity. 

Conor: Yes, yes.

Byron: I certainly enjoy being around kids. You know I spent seven years at home as an at home dad for Maggie and Charlotte when they were in grade school, pre-school and grade school, and I enjoyed that time tremendously and that was not a common, at that time, a common thing for men to choose to do. It was stereotypically a mother's role, but I enjoyed that role, that part that I played quite a lot. 

Conor: Well thank you very much those are all the questions that I have prepared.

Byron: Okay, great. 

Conor: You were a very good interviewee

Byron: Glad I could help. Hope the project goes well. 